# Bd-Genetic-Assays
A project for genetic assays of the amphibian pathogen Bd, eventually aimed to be open-sourced.

**Project Absract**

Amphibian species are declining globally. One major driver of these declines is the worldwide spread of Batrachochytrium dendrobatidis (Bd), a pathogenic fungus known to induce the disease chytridiomycosis in amphibians. Bd can quickly spread across amphibian populations leading to population or even community-level collapses. Such dramatic impact on amphibians necessitates a comprehensive understanding of the emergence and spread of Bd. Molecular data can help reveal pathogen history that cannot be uncovered by field observations alone. Previous work in the Rosenblum lab has developed molecular assays to obtain Bd genetic sequences from amphibian skin swabs, an often overlooked source of pathogen genetic data. Additionally, the Rosenblum lab has generated R scripts to work with genomic sequences for both phylogenetic and population genetic analysis. Such advances in genomic methods have greatly expanded our understanding of Bd both regionally and globally. However, distributing and reproducing methods across the amphibian research community is still a major challenge. While both molecular and data analysis protocols exist, there is no efficient pipeline for broad distribution. Therefore, I developed an open-source platform that combines wet lab protocols and data analysis code developed in the Rosenblum lab. Using both GitHub and RMarkdown, I wrote and compiled R scripts into an interactive, online workspace. This workspace creates a detailed workflow, starting with genomic sequences and resulting in data outputs necessary for phylogenetic and population genetic analysis. It includes example input sequences to walk users through data cleaning, building concatenated amplicon alignments for phylogenetic trees, and calling sequence variants for population genetics. Once established on GitHub, the platform empowers collaborative science by allowing researchers to provide workflow feedback, improve code, and expand the breadth of analyses through novel pipelines. The unique potential of this platform is to enable the amphibian research community to more feasibly apply the method and truly provide open-access science.

**Before You Begin**

When utilizing the [HTML](https://hkania.github.io/Bd-Genetic-Assays/) Genetic Assay Workflows, [clone the repository](https://docs.github.com/en/github/creating-cloning-and-archiving-repositories/cloning-a-repository) to your local computer to utilize the reference files. 
